.TH typespeed "6" "August 2008" "typespeed v0.6.5" "Games"
.SH NAME
typespeed \- Test your typing speed and get your fingers' CPS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B typespeed [OPTION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Typespeed gives your fingers' cps (total and correct), typoratio and
some points to compare with your friends.
.P
Typespeed's idea is ripped from ztspeed (a dos game made by Zorlim).
Idea of the game should be clear to anyone, just type and type it fast
or be a loser.
.SH USAGE
The basics are simple: words, which are extracted out of a specified
word list, fly from the left to the right. Your task is in any case to
write them down before they reach the right side and disappear, in
which case your miss counter will be increased. Should you have missed
10 words, the game will end. Each correct input will increase your high
score, where one character of the word is exactly one point, i.e. a
longer word results in more points. Your total CPS and your correct CPS
are displayed during game play. Total CPS means all your input, whereas
correct CPS only counts characters, that you have entered to write a
correct word. To enter the words, you can also use emacs-like control
sequences (^A jumps to the beginning of the string, ^B goes back one
character, ^E jumps to the end of string, ^F moves cursor one position
to the left (except cursor is at end of string), ^K deletes all
characters behind cursor, ^U clears input field). Should you have
enabled cheat mode (you can see CHE in status line then), you don't
have to complete your input by pressing ENTER or SPACE.
.P
If you have played typespeed with these default rules far too long and
you want something new, you can create your own rule sets! There are
three rule sets supplied since 0.6.1:
.P
The first rule contains default settings. You can play this mode when you
don't supply any options and just start the game. In this mode, speed
will increase whenever you enter a correct word. At the end of the game,
you can get a rank in your top 10 list for the specified word list.
.P
Settings have changed in 0.6.0. If you want to play with old rules
(typespeed 0.4.4 - 0.5.3), you can choose classic.
.P
The third rule set is training - speed won't increase.
.P
If you have other ideas, you can supply your own rule set or change
the settings in menu "Game Rules". Feel free to send in some fancy
rules.
.P
Also, you can play typespeed in multiplayer. In this
mode you can play against one opponent over TCP/IPv4. Both sides can
choose a word list, should you type in a correct word and your opponent
can handle more words (based upon his current stat), there is a
possibility that your typed word will be thrown into his game. But
remember, the same goes for you! In this mode, no rank can be achieved
in your (or opponent's) top 10 list. During multiplayer, you cannot
press CURSOR UP to pause the game, instead CURSOR UP will immediately
result in a game over. You cannot play custom rule sets in multiplayer.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--cheat
This will enable the cheat, which wraps words instantly when they are
written correctly. You don't need to press space/enter. It is another
question if this "cheat" actually helps...
.TP
.B \--client=addr
Start typespeed in client mode (where addr is network address of server)
Typespeed will try to connect to the given address and start network
play.
.TP
.B \--netlog=file
For debugging purposes. The whole network data is written into file. If
you have issues with network gaming, attach this file to a bug report
mail.
.TP
.B \--nocolors
Turns off the curses colors. It can be a more clear way to play the
game in some situations.
.TP
.B \--port=port
Tells what TCP/IPv4 port will typespeed be using in the network play. The
default port is 6025.
.TP
.B \--server
Start typespeed in server mode. Typespeed will wait for other player to
connect.
.TP
.B \--help
Little explanation of the parameters.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.B /etc/typespeedrc
.TP
.B $HOME/.typespeed/config
.P
In these files, you can specify the location of directories for
game rules and word lists. You can also activate cheat mode in these
files if you write "cheat = yes". If you create a configuration file
in your home directory, you must also create a file called
$HOME/.typespeed/score. All your personal high scores are stored in
this file, not anymore in system wide high score file. This is needed
to prevent malicious users to pretend to have 1000 points in e.g.
words.eng whereby directory for word lists has been changed. In order
to compete with system-wide users, you have to remove your personal
configuration file.
.SH WORD LISTS
.br
If you would like to create your own word list, you have to follow these
simple rules:
.P
The first line contains the description that will be listed in word list
selection menu. You cannot use more than 60 characters.
.P
A word list must consist of at least 22 different words, i.e. no
duplicated words. The words must not be longer than 19 characters.
Should they be longer, they won't be parsed; instead they are silently
dropped. Words must not contain escape sequences, tabs or spaces. These
words will be dropped, too.
.P
Blank lines will be ignored.
.P
If you would like to see your created word list included into next
release, please send me an e-mail (tobias@bugol.de).
.SH NOTES
Do not use typespeed version 0.5.2 or higher with a version < 0.5.2.
The usage of network control words has been changed, so you could not
end games.
.P
If you have used typespeed < 0.6.0 and you wish to use your high scores
in newer versions, you have to convert them into new format.
.BR convert
can be used for this task.
.BR convert
takes two arguments: the old high score directory and the new high score
file. Due to changed high score file format, it is expected that converted
scores (especially cps) differ.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Jani Ollikainen <bestis@iki.fi>,
Jaakko Manelius <jman@iki.fi>, and Tobias Stoeckmann <tobias@bugol.de>.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <tobias@bugol.de>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-2003   Jani Ollikainen  <bestis@iki.fi>
                          Jaakko Manelius  <jman@iki.fi>
.P
Copyright (C) 2006-2007   Tobias Stoeckmann  <tobias@bugol.de>
.P
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.

